# AWS Storage Options – S3 & Glacier

## Amazon S3

* can also act as an Origin store for the Content Delivery Network (CDN) such as Amazon CloudFront

### Glacier

* Retrieving archives from Vaults require initiation of a job and can take anywhere **around 3-5 hours**

### Versioning

**Versioning does not prevent Bucket deletion** and must be backed up, as if accidentally or maliciously deleted the data is lost

### Tracking

* Use Event Notifications to be notified for any put or delete request on the S3 objects
* **Use CloudTrail**, which **helps capture specific API calls made to S3** from the AWS account and delivers the log files to an S3 bucket
* Use CloudWatch to monitor the Amazon S3 buckets, tracking metrics such as object counts and bytes stored and configure appropriate actions

### PUTs/GETs for Large Objects

For **PUTs**, **Multipart upload** can help improve the **uploads**
For **GETs**, **range http header** can help to improve the **downloads** 

1.A media company produces new video files on-premises every day with a total size of around 100GB after compression. All files have a size of 1-2 GB and need to be uploaded to Amazon S3 every night in a fixed time window between 3am and 5am. Current upload takes almost 3 hours, although less than half of the available bandwidth is used. What step(s) would ensure that the file uploads are able to complete in the allotted time window?

**Upload the files in parallel to S3 using multipart upload**

2.You are designing a web application that stores static assets in an Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket. **You expect this bucket to immediately receive over 150 PUT requests per second. What should you do to ensure optimal performance**?

**Add a random prefix to the key names.**

3.You have an application running on an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud instance, that uploads 5 GB video objects to Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3). Video uploads are taking longer than expected, resulting in poor application performance. Which method will help improve performance of your application?

**Use Amazon S3 multipart upload**

4.Which of the following methods gives you protection against accidental loss of data stored in Amazon S3? (Choose 2)

* **Set bucket policies to restrict deletes, and also enable versioning (versioning is not default)**
* **Back up your bucket to a bucket owned by another AWS account for redundancy**


5.What other information must you gather from this customer in order to determine whether S3 is the right option?

**You must find out total number of requests per second at peak usage.**

* **Size does not relate to the key namespace design but the count does**
* **S3 provided unlimited storage the key namespace design would depend on the number**

6.If an application is storing hourly log files from thousands of instances from a high traffic web site, which naming scheme would give optimal performance on S3?

**HH-DD-MM-YYYY-log_instanceID (HH will give some randomness to start with instead of instaneId where the first characters would be i-)**

## S3 Buckets & Objects

Key / Value /  Metadata  /  Version ID / Subresources / Access Control Information


## Virtual Hosted Style vs Path-Style Request

### Path-style

```
http://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/mybucket/puppy.jpg.
```

### Virtual hosted-style

```
 http://bucketname.s3.amazonaws.com/objectname
```

### Questions

1.What are characteristics of Amazon S3? Choose 2 answers

* **a. Objects are directly accessible via a URL**
* b.S3 allows you to store objects or virtually unlimited size (wrong 1 bytes tp 5TB)
* C. **S3 allows you to store virtually `unlimited amounts` of data**

2.A user wants to upload a complete folder to AWS S3 using the S3 Management console. How can the user perform this activity?

**Use the Enable Enhanced Uploader option from the S3 console while uploading objects**

3.A company is deploying a two-tier, highly available web application to AWS. Which service provides durable storage for static content while utilizing lower Overall CPU resources for the web tier?

**Amazon S3**

4.When you put objects in Amazon S3, what is the indication that an object was successfully stored?

**A HTTP 200 result code and MD5 checksum, taken together, indicate that the operation was successful.**


5.You have private video content in S3 that you want to serve to subscribed users on the Internet. User IDs, credentials, and subscriptions are stored in an Amazon RDS database. Which configuration will allow you to securely serve private content to your users?

**Generate pre-signed URLs for each user as they request access to protected S3 content**

6.You run an ad-supported photo sharing website using S3 to serve photos to visitors of your site. At some point you find out that **other sites have been linking to the photos on your site, causing loss to your business**. What is an effective method to migrate this?

**Remove public read access and use signed URLs with expiry dates.**

7.You are designing a web application that stores static assets in an Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket. **You expect this bucket to immediately receive over 150 PUT requests per second. What should you do to ensure optimal performance?**

**Add a random prefix to the key names.**

Why not multipart, because multi-part is designed for one big size object (5TB) divided into multi parts(10000) then upload


8.What is the maximum number of S3 buckets available per AWS Account?

**100 Per Account**

## Bucket Subresources

### Object Lifecycle

### Static Website hosting

* S3 does not support server-side scripting
* S3 website endpoints do not support https.

### Versioning

### Policy & Access Control List (ACL)

### CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)

### Notification

S3 can publish events to the following destination

* SNS topic
* SQS queue
* AWS Lambda

## Cross Region Replication

* Compliance requirement to have data backed up across regions
* Minimize latency to allow users across geography to access objects
* Operational reasons 

### Requirements

* source and destination buckets must be versioning-enabled
* source and destination buckets must be in different AWS regions
* objects can be replicated from a source bucket to only one destination bucket
* S3 must have permission to replicate objects from that source bucket to the destination bucket on your behalf.
* If the source bucket owner also owns the object, the bucket owner has full permissions to replicate the object.
* Setting up cross-region replication in a cross-account scenario (where the source and destination buckets are owned by different AWS 

1.An organization’s security policy requires multiple copies of all critical data to be replicated across at least a primary and backup data center. The organization has decided to store some critical data on Amazon S3. Which option should you implement to ensure this requirement is met?

**You do not need to implement anything since S3 data is automatically replicated between multiple facilities within an AWS Region**

2.A customer wants to track access to their Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) buckets and also use this information for their internal security and access audits. Which of the following will meet the Customer requirement?

**Enable server access logging for all required Amazon S3 buckets**

3.A user is enabling a static website hosting on an S3 bucket. Which of the below mentioned parameters cannot be configured by the user?

**Conditional error on object name**

4.Company ABCD is currently hosting their corporate site in an Amazon S3 bucket with Static Website Hosting enabled. Currently, when visitors go to http://www.companyabcd.com the index.html page is returned. Company C now would like a new page welcome.html to be returned when a visitor enters http://www.companyabcd.com in the browser. Which of the following steps will allow Company ABCD to meet this requirement? Choose 2 answers.

* Upload an html page named welcome.html to their S3 bucket
* Set the Index Document property to welcome.html

## AWS S3 Storage Classes Overview

* Standard
* Standard IA
* Reduced Redundancy Storage – RRS
* Glacier

1.What is the durability of S3 RRS?

**99.99%**

2.What is the Reduced Redundancy option in Amazon S3?

**Less redundancy for a lower cost**

3.An application is generating a log file every 5 minutes. The log file is not critical but may be required only for verification in case of some major issue. **The file should be accessible over the internet whenever required.** Which of the below mentioned options is a best possible storage solution for it?

**AWS S3 RRS**

**AWS Glacier => 3 to 5 hours**

4.A user has moved an object to Glacier using the life cycle rules. The user requests to restore the archive after 6 months.** When the restore request is completed the user accesses that archive. Which of the below mentioned statements is **not true** in this condition**?

**The restored object’s storage class will be RRS (After the object is restored the storage class still remains GLACIER.**

5.Which of the below mentioned options can be a good use case for storing content in AWS RRS?

**Storing image thumbnails**

## Data Protection

### Data in-transit

communication via SSL or using client-side encryption
 
### Data at Rest

**S3 supports both client side encryption and server side encryption for protecting data at rest**

**Server-Side Encryption**:  S3 encrypts the object before saving it on disks in its data centers

**Client-Side Encryption**: you can encrypt data client-side and upload the encrypted data to S3. 

### Server-Side Encryption

* Server-side encryption encrypts only the object data. Any object metadata is not encrypted.
* S3 handles the encryption (as it writes to disks) and decryption (when you access the objects) of the data objects

1. Server-Side Encryption with **Amazon S3-Managed Keys** (SSE-S3)
2. Server-Side Encryption with **AWS KMS-Managed Keys** (SSE-KMS)
3. Server-Side Encryption with **Customer-Provided Keys** (SSE-C)


### Client-Side Encryption

* AWS KMS-managed customer master key (CMK)
* Client-Side master key

### Questions1

1.A company is storing data on Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3). The company’s security policy mandates that data is encrypted at rest. Which of the following methods can achieve this? Choose 3 answers

* Use Amazon S3 server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service managed keys
* Use Amazon S3 server-side encryption with customer-provided keys
* Encrypt the data on the client-side before ingesting to Amazon S3 using their own master key

2.A user has enabled versioning on an S3 bucket. The user is using server side encryption for data at Rest. If the user is supplying his own keys for encryption (SSE-C) which of the below mentioned statements is true?

**It is possible to have different encryption keys for different versions of the same object**

3.A storage admin wants to encrypt all the objects stored in S3 using server side encryption. **The user does not want to use the AES 256 encryption key provided by S3.** How can the user achieve this?

**The admin should send the keys and encryption algorithm with each API call**

4.A user has enabled versioning on an S3 bucket. The user is using server side encryption for data at rest. If the user is supplying his own keys for encryption (SSE-C), what is recommended to the user for the purpose of security?

**Keep rotating the encryption key manually at the client side**

5.A system admin is planning to encrypt all objects being uploaded to S3 from an application. The system admin does not want to implement his own encryption algorithm; instead he is planning to use server side encryption by supplying his own key (SSE-C.. **Which parameter is not required while making a call for SSE-C**?

**x-amz-server-side-encryption-customer-key-AES-256**  already exist

6.A customer is leveraging Amazon Simple Storage Service in eu-west-1 to store static content for a web-based property. The customer is storing objects using the Standard Storage class. **Where are the customers objects replicated**?

**Multiple facilities in eu-west-1**

7.A user has enabled server side encryption with S3. The user downloads the encrypted object from S3. How can the user decrypt it?

**S3 manages encryption and decryption automatically**

8.When uploading an object, what request header can be explicitly specified in a request to Amazon S3 to encrypt object data when saved on the server side?

**x-amz-server-side-encryption**


## S3 Permissions Overview

### User policies

### Resource based policies

* Bucket Policies
* Access Control Lists (ACLs)
 * Each bucket and object has an ACL associated with it.
 * An ACL is a list of grants identifying grantee and permission granted
 * ACLs are used to grant basic read/write permissions on resources to other AWS accounts.
 * cannot grant conditional permissions, nor can you explicitly deny permissions
 * cannot be used to grant permissions **for bucket subresources**

Object ACL

* Object ACLs control only Object-level Permissions
* Object ACL is the **only way to manage permission to an object in the bucket not owned by the bucket owner**


1.Which features can be used to restrict access to data in S3? Choose 2 answers

* Set an S3 ACL on the bucket or the object.
* Set an S3 bucket policy.

2.Which method can be used to prevent an IP address block from accessing public objects in an S3 bucket?

**Create a bucket policy and apply it to the bucket**

3.A root account owner has given full access of his S3 bucket to one of the IAM users using the bucket ACL. When the IAM user logs in to the S3 console, which actions can he perform?

**It is not possible to give access to an IAM user using ACL**

4.A root AWS account owner is trying to understand various options to set the permission to AWS S3. Which of the below mentioned options is not the right option to grant permission for S3?

**It is not possible to give access to an IAM user using ACL**

5.root AWS account owner is trying to understand various options to set the permission to AWS S3. Which of the below mentioned options is not the right option to grant permission for S3?

**S3 Object Policy**

6.A system admin is managing buckets, objects and folders with AWS S3. Which of the below mentioned statements is true and should be taken in consideration by the sysadmin?

**Both the object and bucket can have ACL but folders cannot have ACL**

7.A user has created an S3 bucket which is not publicly accessible. The bucket is having thirty objects which are also private. If the user wants to make the objects public, how can he configure this with minimal efforts?

**Set the AWS bucket policy which marks all objects as public**

8.You need to configure an Amazon S3 bucket to serve static assets for your public-facing web application. Which methods ensure that all objects uploaded to the bucket are set to public read? Choose 2 answers

* Set permissions on the object to public read during upload.
* Configure the bucket policy to set all objects to public read.

9.Amazon S3 doesn’t automatically give a user who creates __a bucket or object__ permission to perform other actions on that bucket or object.

10.A user is enabling logging on a particular bucket. Which of the below mentioned options may be best suitable to allow access to the log bucket?

**Provide ACL for the logging group**

11.A user is trying to configure access with S3. Which of the following options **is not possible** to provide access to the S3 bucket / object?

**Define the policy for the object**

12.A user is having access to objects of an S3 bucket, which is not owned by him. If he is trying to set the objects of that bucket public, which of the below mentioned options may be a right fit for this action?

**Provide ACL on the object**

## S3 Object Lifecycle Overview

1.Which set of Amazon S3 features helps to prevent and recover from accidental data loss?

**Object versioning and Multi-factor authentication**

2.You use S3 to store critical data for your company Several users within your group currently have full permissions to your S3 buckets. You need to come up with a solution that does not impact your users and also protect against the accidental deletion of objects. Which two options will address this issue? Choose 2 answers

* Enable versioning on your S3 Buckets
* Configure your S3 Buckets with MFA delete

3.To protect S3 data from both accidental deletion and accidental overwriting, you should

**enable S3 versioning on the bucket**

4.A user has not enabled versioning on an S3 bucket. What will be the version ID of the object inside that bucket?

**Null**

