## EC2 Instance Metadata & Userdata

1.How can software determine the public and private IP addresses of the Amazon EC2 instance that it is running on?

**Query the local instance metadata**

2.The base URI for all requests for instance metadata is ____

**http://169.254.169.254/latest/**


3.Which Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud feature can you query from within the instance to access instance properties?


**Instance metadata**

4.You need to pass a custom script to new Amazon Linux instances created in your Auto Scaling group. Which feature allows you to accomplish this?

**User data**

5.By default, when an EBS volume is attached to a Windows instance, it may show up as any drive letter on the instance. You can change the settings of the _____ Service to set the drive letters of the EBS volumes per your specifications.

**EC2Config Service**

6.How can software determine the public and private IP addresses of the Amazon EC2 instance that it is running on?

**Query the local instance metadata.**

## AWS EC2 – Placement Groups

* Cluster – clusters instances into a low-latency group in a single AZ
* Spread – spreads instances across underlying hardware

### Cluster Placement Group

* is a logical grouping of instances within a single Availability Zone
* don’t span across Availability Zones
* recommended for applications that benefits from low network latency, high network throughput, or both.
* To provide the lowest latency, and the highest packet-per-second network performance for the placement group, choose an instance type that supports enhanced networking


### Spread Placement Groups

is a group of instances that are each placed on distinct underlying hardware

1.What is a placement group?

**Feature that enables EC2 instances to interact with each other via high bandwidth, low latency connections**

2.In order to optimize performance for a compute cluster that requires low inter-node latency, which feature in the following list should you use?

**Placement Groups**

3.What is required to achieve gigabit network throughput on EC2? You already selected cluster-compute, 10GB instances with enhanced networking, and your workload is already network-bound, but you are not seeing 10 gigabit speeds.


**Use a placement group for your instances so the instances are physically near each other in the same Availability Zone**
