## EC2 VM Import/Export

EC2 VM Import/Export enables importing virtual machine (VM) images from existing virtualization environment to EC2, and then export them back

## EC2 Monitoring

### Status Checks
### CloudWatch Monitoring

**Statistics are recorded for a period of two weeks, so that historical information can be accessed and used to gain a better perspective on how the application or service is performing.**

**By default Basic monitoring is enabled and EC2 metric data is sent to CloudWatch in 5-minute periods automatically**

**Detailed monitoring can be enabled on EC2 instance, which sends data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods.**

**1.Aggregating Statistics Across Instances/ASG/AMI ID**

**2.CloudWatch alarms**

### Questions

1.In the basic monitoring package for EC2, Amazon CloudWatch provides the following metrics:

**Hypervisor visible metrics such as CPU utilization**

2.Which of the following requires a custom CloudWatch metric to monitor?

**Memory Utilization of an EC2 instance**

**CPU Utilization of an EC2 instance** is default

3.A user has configured CloudWatch monitoring on an EBS backed EC2 instance. If the user has not attached any additional device, which of the below mentioned metrics will always show a 0 value?

**DiskReadBytes**

4.A user is running a batch process on EBS backed EC2 instances. The batch process starts a few instances to process Hadoop Map reduce jobs, which can run between 50 – 600 minutes or sometimes for more time. The user wants to configure that the instance gets terminated only when the process is completed. How can the user configure this with CloudWatch

**Setup the CloudWatch action to terminate the instance when the CPU utilization is less than 5%**

5.An AWS account owner has setup multiple IAM users. One IAM user only has CloudWatch access. He has setup the alarm action, which stops the EC2 instances when the CPU utilization is below the threshold limit. What will happen in this case?

**The user can setup the action but it will not be executed if the user does not have EC2 rights**

6.A user has launched 10 instances from the same AMI ID using Auto Scaling. The user is trying to see the average CPU utilization across all instances of the last 2 weeks under the CloudWatch console. How can the user achieve this?

**View the Auto Scaling CPU metrics** 

Aggregate the data over the instance AMI ID (Works but needs detailed monitoring enabled)

## EC2 Troubleshooting

### EC2 Troubleshooting An Instance Immediately Terminates

* EBS volume limit was reached. Its a soft limit and can be increased by submitting a support request
* EBS snapshot is corrupt.
* Instance store-backed AMI used to launch the instance is missing a required part

### EC2 Troubleshooting Connecting to Your Instance

#### Error connecting to your instance: Connection timed out

* CPU load on the instance is high; the server may be overloaded.
* User key not recognized by server


### EC2 Troubleshooting Instances with Failed Status Checks

#### Resolution

* Amazon EBS-backed AMI instance – stop and restart the instance
* Instance-store backed AMI – terminate the instance and launch a replacement.

### Questions

1.A user has launched an EC2 instance. **The instance got terminated as soon as it was launched**. Which of the below mentioned options is not a possible reason for this?

**The user account has reached the maximum EC2 instance limit**

2.If you’re unable to connect via SSH to your EC2 instance, which of the following should you check and possibly correct to restore connectivity?

**Adjust the instance’s Security Group to permit ingress traffic over port 22 from your IP**

3.You try to connect via SSH to a newly created Amazon EC2 instance and get one of the following error messages: “Network error: Connection timed out” or “Error connecting to [instance], reason: -> Connection timed out: connect,” You have confirmed that the network and security group rules are configured correctly and the instance is passing status checks. What steps should you take to identify the source of the behavior? Choose 2 answers

* Verify that the private key file corresponds to the Amazon EC2 key pair assigned at launch.
 
* Verify that you are connecting with the appropriate user name for your AMI.

4.A user has launched an EBS backed EC2 instance in the us-east-1a region. The user stopped the instance and started it back after 20 days. AWS throws up an ‘Insufficient Instance Capacity’ error. What can be the possible reason for this?

**AWS does not have sufficient capacity in that availability zone**

5.A user is trying to connect to a running EC2 instance using SSH. However, the user gets an Unprotected Private Key File error. Which of the below mentioned options can be a possible reason for rejection?

**The private key file has the wrong file permission**

6.A user has launched an EC2 instance. However, due to some reason the instance was terminated. If the user wants to find out the reason for termination, where can he find the details?

**The user can get information from the AWS console, by checking the Instance description under the State transition reason label**

7.A user is trying to connect to a running EC2 instance using SSH. However, the user gets a connection time out error. Which of the below mentioned options is not a possible reason for rejection?

**The access key to connect to the instance is wrong**

8.A user is trying to connect to a running EC2 instance using SSH. However, the user gets a Host key not found error. Which of the below mentioned options is a possible reason for rejection?

**The user has provided the wrong user name for the OS login**

## EC2 Network Features


### For an instance, without a public IP address, to communicate to internet it must be assigned an Elastic IP address

### When an Elastic IP address is assigned to an instance, the public IP address is disassociated with the instance

### Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI)

Elastic Network Interfaces (ENIs) are virtual network interfaces that can be attached to the instances running in an VPC only

#### ENI Best Practices

* ENI can be attached to an instance when it’s **running (hot attach)**, when it’s **stopped (warm attach)**, or when the instance is being **launched (cold attach**).
* Primary (eth0) interface can’t be detached
* Secondary (ethN) ENI can be detached when the instance is running or stopped.
* ENI in one subnet can be attached to an instance in another subnet, but the same AZ and same VPC

### Questions

1.A user is launching an EC2 instance in the US East region. Which of the below mentioned options is recommended by AWS with respect to the selection of the availability zone?

**Do not select the AZ; instead let AWS select the AZ**

2.You have multiple Amazon EC2 instances running in a cluster across **multiple Availability Zones** within the same region. What combination of the following should be used to ensure the highest network performance (packets per second), lowest latency, and lowest jitter? Choose 3 answers

Amazon EC2 placement groups (would not work for multiple AZs)

* **Enhanced networking (provides network performance, lowest latency)**

* **Amazon HVM AMI**
 
* **Amazon VPC (Enhanced networking works only in VPC)**

3.Regarding the attaching of ENI to an instance, what does ‘warm attach’ refer to?

**Attaching an ENI to an instance when it is stopped**

4.Can I detach the primary (eth0) network interface when the instance is running or stopped?

**You cannot**

5.By default what are ENIs that are automatically created and attached to instances using the EC2 console set to do when the attached instance terminates?

**Terminate**

6.Select the incorrect statement

**In Amazon VPC, an instance does NOT retain its private IP addresses when the instance is stopped**

7.To ensure failover capabilities, consider using a _____ for incoming traffic on a network interface”.

**secondary private IP**

8.Which statements are true about Elastic Network Interface (ENI)? (Choose 2 answers)

* You can change the security group membership of an ENI
* You can attach an instance to tow different subnets within a VPC by using two ENIs

9.A user is planning to host a web server as well as an app server on a single EC2 instance, which is a part of the public subnet of a VPC. How can the user **setup to have two separate public IPs and separate security groups for both the application as well as the web server**?

**Launch a VPC instance with two network interfaces. Assign a separate security group and elastic IP to them.**

10.A user has created a VPC with a public subnet. The user has terminated all the instances, which are part of the subnet. Which of the below mentioned statements is true with respect to this scenario?

**All network interface attached with the instances will be deleted**

## Elastic Cloud Compute – EC2 Overview

1.What are the Amazon EC2 API tools?

**Command-line tools to the Amazon EC2 web service**

2.When a user is launching an instance with EC2, which of the below mentioned options is not available during the instance launch console for a key pair?

**Upload a new key pair**

### IAM

IAM allows to control only what actions a user can perform on the EC2 resources but cannot be used to grant access for users to be able to access or login to the instances


### Questions

1.You launch an Amazon EC2 instance without an assigned AWS identity and Access Management (IAM) role. Later, you decide that the instance should be running with an IAM role. Which action must you take in order to have a running Amazon EC2 instance with an IAM role assigned to it?

**Create a new IAM role with the same permissions as an existing IAM role, and assign it to the running instance**


2.What does the following command do with respect to the Amazon EC2 security groups? ec2-revoke RevokeSecurityGroupIngress

**Removes one or more rules from a security group**

3.Which of the following cannot be used in Amazon EC2 to control who has access to specific Amazon EC2 instances?

**IAM System**

4.You must assign each server to at least _____ security group

**1**

5.A company is building software on AWS that requires access to various AWS services. Which configuration should be used to ensure that AWS credentials (i.e., Access Key ID/Secret Access Key combination) are not compromised?

**Assign an IAM role to the Amazon EC2 instance**

6.Which of the following items are required to allow an application deployed on an EC2 instance to write data to a DynamoDB table? Assume that no security keys are allowed to be stored on the EC2 instance. (Choose 2 answers)

* Create an IAM Role that allows write access to the DynamoDB table
* Add an IAM Role to a running EC2 instance.

7.You have an application running on an EC2 Instance, which will allow users to download files from a private S3 bucket using a pre-assigned URL. Before generating the URL the application should verify the existence of the file in S3. How should the application use AWS credentials to access the S3 bucket securely?

**Create an IAM role for EC2 that allows list access to objects in the S3 bucket. Launch the instance with the role, and retrieve the role’s credentials from the EC2 Instance metadata**

8.A user has created an application, which will be hosted on EC2. The application makes calls to DynamoDB to fetch certain data. The application is using the DynamoDB SDK to connect with from the EC2 instance. Which of the below mentioned statements is true with respect to the best practice for security in this scenario?

**The user should attach an IAM role with DynamoDB access to the EC2 instance**

9.Your application is leveraging IAM Roles for EC2 for accessing object stored in S3. Which two of the following IAM policies control access to you S3 objects.

* An IAM trust policy allows the EC2 instance to assume an EC2 instance role.
* An IAM access policy allows the EC2 role to access S3 objects

## AWS EC2 Instance Lifecycle

### EC2 instance retains its private IP address as well as the Elastic IP address. However, the public IP address, if assigned instead of the Elastic IP address, would be released


### Questions

1.A user has enabled termination protection on an EC2 instance. The user has also set Instance initiated shutdown behavior to terminate. When the user shuts down the instance from the OS, what will happen

**It will terminate the instance**

2.A user has launched an EC2 instance and deployed a production application in it. The user wants to prohibit any mistakes from the production team to avoid accidental termination. How can the user achieve this?

**The user can the set DisableApiTermination attribute to avoid accidental termination**


## AWS EC2 Storage

1.When you view the block device mapping for your instance, you can see only the EBS volumes, not the instance store volumes.

**TRUE**

2.Amazon EC2 provides a repository of **public data sets** that can be seamlessly integrated into AWS cloud-based applications. What is the monthly charge for using the public data sets?

**There is no charge for using the public data sets**

3.How many types of block devices does Amazon EC2 support?

**2**  EBS / Instance storage 

EBS volumes and instance store volumes for an instance are specified using a block device mapping


1.Please select the most correct answer regarding the persistence of the Amazon Instance Store


**The data on an instance store volume persists only during the life of the associated Amazon EC2 instance**

2.A user has launched an EC2 instance from an instance store backed AMI. The user has attached an additional instance store volume to the instance. The user wants to create an AMI from the running instance. Will the AMI have the additional instance store volume data?

**Yes, the block device mapping will have information about the additional instance store volume**

3.When an EC2 instance that is backed by an S3-based AMI Is terminated, what happens to the data on the root volume?

**Data is automatically deleted**

4.A user has launched an EC2 instance from an instance store backed AMI. If the user **restarts/reboots the instance**, what will happen to the ephemeral storage data?

### The data is preserved


5.When an EC2 EBS-backed instance is stopped, what happens to the data on any ephemeral store volumes?

**Data will be deleted and will no longer be accessible**

6.A user has launched an EC2 Windows instance from an instance store backed AMI. The user has also set the Instance initiated shutdown behavior to stop. What will happen when the user shuts down the OS?

**It is not possible to set the termination behavior to Stop for an Instance store backed AMI instance**

7.Which of the following will occur when an EC2 instance in a VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) with an associated Elastic IP is stopped and started? (Choose 2 answers)


* All data on instance-store devices will be lost

* The underlying host for the instance is changed

### EBS

**Snapshots of encrypted volumes and volumes created from encrypted snapshots are automatically encrypted using the same volume **

1.If an Amazon EBS volume is the root device of an instance, can I detach it without stopping the instance?

**No**

2.Can I delete a snapshot of the root device of an EBS volume used by a registered AMI?

**No**

3.By default, EBS volumes that are created and attached to an instance at launch are deleted when that instance is terminated. You can modify this behavior by changing the value of the flag_____ to false when you launch the instance


**DeleteOnTermination**

4.Your company policies require encryption of sensitive data at rest. You are considering the possible options for protecting data while storing it at rest on an EBS data volume, attached to an EC2 instance. Which of these options would allow you t**o encrypt your data at rest?** (Choose 3 answers)

* Implement third party volume encryption tools

* Encrypt data inside your applications before storing it on EBS 

* Encrypt data using native data encryption drivers at the file system level


5.Which of the following are true regarding **encrypted Amazon Elastic Block Store** (EBS) volumes? Choose 2 answers

* **Supported on all Amazon EBS volume types**
* **Snapshots are automatically encrypted**

6.A user has deployed an application on an EBS backed EC2 instance. For a better performance of application, it requires dedicated EC2 to EBS traffic. How can the user achieve this?

**Use AWS EBS encryption to encrypt the data at rest**

7.A user is planning to schedule a backup for an EBS volume. The user wants security of the snapshot data. How can the user achieve data encryption with a snapshot?

**Use encrypted EBS volumes so that the snapshot will be encrypted by AWS**


8.A user has launched an EBS backed EC2 instance. The user has **rebooted** the instance. Which of the below mentioned statements **is not true with respect** to the reboot action?

**The instance runs on a new host computer**

### The private and public address remains the same => TRUE

9.A user has launched an EBS backed EC2 instance. What will be the difference while performing the restart or stop/start options on that instance?

**For restart it does not charge for an extra hour, while every stop/start it will be charged as a separate hour**

10.You are running a database on an EC2 instance, with the data stored on Elastic Block Store (EBS) for persistence At times throughout the day, you are seeing large variance in the response times of the database queries Looking into the instance with the isolate command you see a lot of wait time on the disk volume that the database’s data is stored on. What two ways can you improve the performance of the database’s storage while maintaining the current persistence of the data? Choose 2 answers


* Move the database to an EBS-Optimized Instance
* Use Provisioned IOPs EBS

11.An organization wants to move to Cloud. They are looking for a secure encrypted database storage option. Which of the below mentioned AWS functionalities helps them to achieve this?

**AWS EBS encryption**

12.A user has stored data on an encrypted EBS volume. The user wants to share the data with his friend’s AWS account. How can user achieve this?

**Copy the data to an unencrypted volume and then share**

13.A user is using an EBS backed instance. Which of the below mentioned statements is true?

**The user will be charged for the volume even if the instance is stopped**

14.A user is planning to use EBS for his DB requirement. The user already has an EC2 instance running in the VPC private subnet. **How can the user attach the EBS volume to a running instance**?

**The user can create EBS in the same zone as the subnet of instance and attach that EBS to instance.**

15.A user is creating an EBS volume. He asks for your advice. Which advice mentioned below should you not give to the user for creating an EBS volume?

**Create an AMI from the attached volume**

16.An EC2 instance has one additional EBS volume attached to it. How can a user attach the same volume to another running instance in the same AZ?

**Detach the volume first and attach to new instance**

17.What is the scope of an EBS volume?


**Availability Zone**
